1. React is just a library not a framework.
2. We can use react using the cdn link as well
3. We can create a element in react using the React.createElement("h1",{name="h1Tag"},"this is a h1")
4. React.createElement is a function which takes 3 arguments, first one is tag, next is attribute and the last is the content
5. We can only pass one tag as the root and render it
6. If there is a div tag which we passed as a root, and there is already some content inside that tag but the react.render(root) will 
override it.
7. If/Else/Switch statement are not allowed inside the JSX
8. Flow how react render the elements on the UI: 
   Component A -> Component Instance A1 -> React Element -> DOM Element (HTML) -> User Interface
9. Phases of rerender:
   Render Triggered -> Render Phase -> Commit Phase -> Browser Paint (DOM Updates)
   a) Render Triggered: When state changes then the component render get triggered
   b) Render Phase: In this phase the render get schedule, we also do batching for multiple state updates, it is asynchronous. it does
      not produce any visual effect. Updating state are asynchronous because states are batched as we can rerender the component there
      times if we have 3 setState in the same function, we will batch them and store it, and we will only update them when the js 
      engine have some free time.
   c) Commit Phase: It is synchronous, in this phase the changes get committed and updated the DOM.
   d) DOM Updates: The changes are visible on the UI. 
10. Render Phase or rendering is not updating the DOM or displaying elements on the UI.
11. Situation when react trigger rerender:
    a) Initial render
    b) State is updated 
12. Renders are not triggered immediately, but scheduled for when the JS engine has some free time. There is also batching of 
    multiple setState calls in event handlers 
13. Virtual Dom is also known as React Element Tree 
14. Virtual DOM is just a vanilla JS object, having lesser number of keys in comparison of Real dom, that's why virtual DOM is 
    cheap and fast
15. Rendering a component will cause all of it's child components to be rerendered as well, no matter is props changes or not. because 
    react doesn't know whether the children will be affected or not.So in safer side react rerender all of it's child components.
16. Real DOM, Fibre Tree, both are some. 
17. React compares virtual dom with real dom which is known as reconciliation where the real dom(fibre dom) is known as reconciler.
18. Fibre tree get's created on the initial render and didn't recreated again and again, it just got updated on each rerender. 
    where as the virtual dom get's recreated again and again.
19. Rendering process can be split into chunks,tasks,can be prioritized and work can be paused, reused or thrown away. where the long
    renders won't block the JS engine. Work can be done asynchronously.
20. Committing phase is synchronous, DOM is updated is one go, it can't be interrupted. This is necessary so that the DOM never shows
    partial results, ensuring a consistent UI.    
21. How DIFFING works: 
    - Diffing uses 2 fundamental assumptions:
     1. Two elements with different types produce different trees
     2. Elements with a stable key prop stay the same across renders  

 22. There are some scenarios which we need to understand above points.
    a) Same Position but Different Elements -> React assumes entire sub-tree is no longer valid, old components are destroyed and 
       removed from the DOM
    b) Same Position AND SAME ELEMENT -> Element will be kept including state, usually face this on screen having multiple tab
    c) Same element AND Different position -> React assumes entire sub-tree is no longer valid, old components are destroyed and 
       removed from the DOM
  23. Key attribute in List: 
    a) If we don't have a key attribute in a list and we added one more element in the start of the list then there is a condition
      of same element but different position so react will destroy them and recreated them in the DOM.
    b) But using the key attribute in the list item when we a new item in the list and added a new key for it without modifying the
       remaining then react will use the previous DOM tree and just updated with by adding one more element in the DOM.
  24. There are two types of logic in react components
    a) Render logic: The logic which we write inside the return condition
    b) Event Handler Function: The logic which we write to make the logic and to handle the events 

   25. SideEffects - Interaction with the outside world is known as side effects or dependency or modifying of any data outside the 
       functional scope.
       -> SideEffects are not bad, a program can only be useful if it has Interaction with the outside world like fetching data from api
   26. Pure Function - A function that has no side effects, if we pass the same value then we will get the same result.
   27. How Event Handler works behind the scene:- There is a concept of event propagation and event delegation in js which happens in 
       react as well, so whenever we get the event object it actually refers to the DOCUMENT first then body then main parent then
       it's child then it's child and then to the element for which we added the handlerFunction after it event bubbling happens and 
       we can listen to that event when needed.
       - React register all the event handlers on the root DOM container.
    28. Synthetic Event:- Pointer Events, Mouse Events, Keyboard Events are all Synthetic events, they are basically the normal object
        but has some special function as property like stopPropagation() and preventDefault()   
    29. PERFORMANCE OPTIMIZATION TOOLS: We can optimize the performance by three ways 
        a) Prevent Wasted Renders - Achieved using memo, useMemo, useCallback, passing element as children
        b) Improve APP Speed/ Responsiveness - useMemo, useCallback, useTransition
        c) Reduce bundle size - Code splitting and lazy loading, using 3rd party packages.
    30. Scenarios of rerender: 
        a) State changes
        b) Context changes
        c) Parent re-render
     31. We can prevent some wasted rerender using some memoization technique, wasted renders are those who doesn't provide any DOM 
         changes.
     32. We have 3 ways to memoize in react, all have different use cases:
        a) memo - Memoize the Component itself
        b) useMemo - Memoize objects using useMemo
        c) useCallback - Memoize function using useCallback.
         34. We can track all these rerender using the Profiler tab of the chrome developer tool.
     33. In react, everything is recreated on every rerender including the objects and functions.
     34. If objects or functions passed as a props then the child component will always see then as new props 
     35. If props are not same during rerender then the memo function will not work, we need to memoize the object and function in order
         to avoid the rerender.
     36. useMemo and useCallback have a dependency array so whenever any dependency changes then the value will be recreated.
     37. If we are using a pure component in which there are no props then we can wrap the whole component in the memo function to 
         memoize the while component also we can use it in case of primitive data type, but in case we are passing object as a props 
         then at that scenario in parent component the object recreated again on rerender and acquire different space in memory so 
         the child component will again get rerender even wrapping child in memo as well, so to resolve it we should memoize the object
         using the useMemo hook so that the object will not be created again and child will not get rerender. 
         And to handle the last scenario, if we are passing the function as the props to the child component then at that scenario as 
         well the function will get created again and child will rerender so to resolve that we should wrap the whole function in the 
         useCallback hook.
         Apart from it we can also use these hooks to memoize the expensive calculations as well within the same component.
     38. BUNDLE AND CODE SPLITTING: 
         a) Bundle: Javascript file containing the whole application code,downloading the code will load the entire app at once, turning 
          it into the single page application.
         b) Bundle Size: Amount of Javascript, which the user needs to download to run the application, one of the most important thing
            to optimize the app
         c) Code splitting: Splitting budle into multiple parts that can be downloaded over time. this is also known as lazy loading.
     39.  We should also optimize the context if there are multiple consumers.
     40. UseEffect dependency array rules:
         a) Every state variable, prop and context value used inside the effect must be included in the dependency array.
     41. We should use ReactQuery to fetch data from the API instead of fetching it in useEffect with empty dependency array in big 
         application.    



